Doc: Exercise proxy framework (#177)
open-cluster-management-io/open-cluster-management-io.github.io: content/en/scenarios/pushing-kube-api-requests.md

---

> title: Pushing kube API requests to the managed clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Pushing Kubernetes API requests to the managed clusters
```

Author: updated

weight: 1
---

By following the instructions in this document, an OCM hub admin will be able

> to "push" kubernetes API requests to the managed clusters with everything 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to "push" Kubernetes API requests to the managed clusters.
```

Author: updated

Author: updated

> automated by a few OCM addons. The amazing part of "pushing" requests in OCM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benefit of using this method for "pushing" requests
```

Author: updated

> is that we don't need either to explicitly configure any API endpoint for the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is that we don't need to explicitly configure any API endpoint for the 
```

Author: updated

> managed clusters or provide any client credentials as preparation. Literally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
managed clusters or provide any client credentials as preparation.
```

Author: updated

> everything needed is to enable/install the following OCM addons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We just need to enable/install the following OCM addons:
```

Author: updated

- [Cluster-Proxy](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/cluster-proxy):
  Setting up the [konnectivity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/setup-konnectivity/) 
  tunnels between the hub cluster and the managed clusters so the hub cluster
  can connect/access the managed cluster from anywhere.
- [Managed-ServiceAccount](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/managed-serviceaccount):
  Automating the lifecycle of the local service account in the managed clusters

>   and projecting the tokens back to the hub cluster so that the kube API clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and projecting the tokens back to the hub cluster so that the Kubernetes API clients
```

Author: updated

>   from the hub make the requests properly authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from the hub can make authenticated requests.
```

Author: updated

- [Cluster-Gateway](https://github.com/oam-dev/cluster-gateway): An aggregated
  apiserver providing a "proxy" subresource which helps the hub admin to 

>   gracefully access the managed clusters by standard kube API calls (including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  gracefully access the managed clusters by standard Kubernetes API calls (including
```

Author: updated

ocm/cluster-gateway-addon-manager	1.1.8        	1.0.0      	A Helm chart for Cluster-Gateway Addon-Manager
ocm/cluster-proxy                	0.1.0        	1.0.0      	A Helm chart for Cluster-Proxy OCM Addon      
ocm/managed-serviceaccount       	0.1.0        	1.0.0      	A Helm chart for Managed ServiceAccount Addon 
```

### Install the OCM addons

By the following helm commands to install the addons:

```shell
$ helm -n open-cluster-management-addon install cluster-proxy ocm/cluster-proxy
$ helm -n open-cluster-management-addon install managed-serviceaccount ocm/managed-serviceaccount
$ helm -n open-cluster-management-addon update cluster-gateway ocm/cluster-gateway-addon-manager \
    # Delegating for secret discovery to "managed-serviceaccount" addon.
    # Skip the option for manual secret management.
    --set manualSecretManagement=false \
    # Enabling konnectivity tunnels via "cluster-proxy" addon.
    # Skip the option if the hub cluster and the managed clusters are already mutually accessible.
    --set konnectivityEgress=true
```

### Confirm addon installation

> The commands above are basically installing the addon manager into the hub 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commands above installs the addon manager into the hub 
```

Author: updated

> cluster, and the manager will be automatically creating `ManagedClusterAddon` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster, and the manager will create the `ManagedClusterAddon` automatically
```

Author: updated

into the cluster namespaces representing the addon is plumbed into the managed

> cluster. In order to check out their status, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster. In order to check their status, run:
```

Author: updated

```shell
$ kubectl get managedclusteraddon -A
NAMESPACE   NAME                     AVAILABLE   DEGRADED   PROGRESSING
managed1    cluster-gateway          Unknown # Expecting an "Unknown" due to temporary addon-framework limitation     
managed1    cluster-proxy            True                   
managed1    managed-serviceaccount   True 
```

> Furthermore, after the addons are all set, the hub admin will be able to see a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, after the addons are all deployed successfully, the hub admin will be able to see a
```

Author: updated

new resource named `ClusterGateway` registered into the hub cluster:

```shell
$ kubectl get clustergateway
NAME       PROVIDER   CREDENTIAL-TYPE       ENDPOINT-TYPE
managed1              ServiceAccountToken   ClusterProxy
```

## Usage

Now the gateway is ready for proxying your requests to the managed clusters
dynamically. The easiest way to verify if the proxying framework is working
is to run the following command:

```shell
$ export CLUSTER_NAME=managed1 # Or any other valid managed cluster name
$ kubectl get --raw="/apis/cluster.core.oam.dev/v1alpha1/clustergateways/${CLUSTER_NAME}/proxy/healthz"
ok
```

> And interestingly you can also easily convert the kubeconfig of the hub cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another nice feature is that you can also easily convert the kubeconfig of the hub cluster
```

Author: updated

into a managed cluster's kubeconfig by adding the api suffix to the cluster 
endpoint in your kubeconfig:

```diff
$ # Copy and edit your original hub kubeconfig into e.g. managed1.kubeconfig
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
...
---    server: https://x.x.x.x
+++    server: https://x.x.x.x/apis/cluster.core.oam.dev/v1alpha1/clustergateways/${CLUSTER_NAME}/proxy
```

Then we can access the managed cluster directly via kubectl with the tweaked
kubeconfig:

```shell
$ KUBECONFIG=managed1.kubeconfig kubectl get ns
```

However upon your first-time installation, you may encounter the RBAC 
restriction message such as:

```text
Error from server (Forbidden): namespaces is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:open-cluster-management-managed-serviceaccount:cluster-gateway" cannot list resource "namespaces" in API group "" at the cluster scope
```

> That is because we haven't set up proper RBAC permissions for the "egress" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is because we haven't set up proper RBAC permissions for the `egress`
```

Author: changed quote type

service account managed by the `ManagedServiceAccount` yet. After granting 
sufficient permissions for the service account in the managed clusters, you

> will be free to operate the managed cluster from the hub without asking for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be able to freely operate the managed cluster from the hub without asking for
```

Author: updated

any credential or kubeconfig from the managed clusters. Note that the service

> account is also periodically rotated by the addons so there's no worry in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
account is also periodically rotated by the addons so there's no need to worry about
```

Author: updated

sustainable credential management.

## Insight

Overall, the following picture of architecture reveals the internal technique
of the request "pushing" framework in the OCM:

<div style="text-align: center; padding: 20px;">
   <img src="/proxy-framework.png" alt="Cluster proxy architecture" style="margin: 0 auto; width: 90%">
</div>

With the help of the framework, we can easily develop a web service or an 
operator that runs in the hub cluster and is able to access to the managed
clusters through the gateway. Note that it's generally not recommended to
list-watch the managed clusters from the hub because it's in a sense violating
the original philosophy of "pull" or "master-agent" architecture of OCM. In
order to coordinate the hub cluster and the managed clusters in your custom
system, consider build your own OCM addon based on the [addon-framework](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/addon-framework)

> which provides you plenty much of utilities for further customization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which provides you utilities for further customization.
```

Author: updated
